Application insights migration guide (#23002)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-python: sdk/monitor/azure-monitor-query/migration_guide_app_insights.md

# Guide for migrating from azure-applicationinsights  v0.1.0 to azure-monitor-query v1.0.x

> This guide assists you in the migration from [azure-applicationinsights ](https://pypi.org/project/azure-applicationinsights /) v0.1.0 to [azure-monitor-query](https://pypi.org/project/azure-monitor-query/) v1.0.x. Side-by-side comparisons are provided for similar operations between the two packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide assists you in the migration from [azure-applicationinsights](https://pypi.org/project/azure-applicationinsights/) v0.1.0 to [azure-monitor-query](https://pypi.org/project/azure-monitor-query/) v1.0.x. Side-by-side comparisons are provided for similar operations between the two packages.
```

### Cross-service SDK improvements

The Azure Monitor Query client library also takes advantage of the cross-service improvements made to the Azure development experience. Examples include:

- Using the new [`azure-identity`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/identity/azure-identity/README.md) library to share a single authentication approach between clients.
- A unified logging and diagnostics pipeline offering a common view of the activities across each of the client libraries.

### New features

There are a variety of new features in version 1.0 of the Monitor Query library. Some include:

- The ability to execute a batch of queries with the `LogsQueryClient.query_batch()` API.
- The ability to configure the retry policy used by the operations on the client.
- Authentication with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) credentials using [`azure-identity`](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/identity/azure-identity/README.md).

For more new features, changes, and bug fixes, see the [change log](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-python/blob/main/sdk/monitor/azure-monitor-query/CHANGELOG.md).

## Important changes

### The client

> To provide a more intuitive experience, the top-level client to `ApplicationInsightsDataClient` has been split into tow different clients:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To provide a more intuitive experience, the top-level client to `ApplicationInsightsDataClient` has been split into two different clients:

```

> - `LogsQueryClient` which serves as a single point of entry to execute a single Kusto query or a batch of Kusto queries.
> - `MetricsQueryClient` which can be used to query metrics, list metric namespaces and to list metric defintions. 
> Both of these clients can be authenticated using Azure AD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [LogsQueryClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/python/api/azure-monitor-query/azure.monitor.query.logsqueryclient?view=azure-python) serves as a single point of entry to execute a single Kusto query or a batch of Kusto queries.
- [MetricsQueryClient](https://docs.microsoft.com/python/api/azure-monitor-query/azure.monitor.query.metricsqueryclient?view=azure-python) is used to query metrics, list metric namespaces, and to list metric definitions.

Both clients can be authenticated using Azure AD.
```

#### Consistency

There are now methods with similar names, signatures, and locations to create senders and receivers. The result is consistency and predictability on the various features of the library.

### Client constructors and authentication

In `azure-applicationinsights ` v0.1.0:

```python
from azure.applicationinsights import ApplicationInsightsDataClient
from msrestazure.azure_active_directory import ServicePrincipalCredentials

credential = ServicePrincipalCredentials(...)
client = ApplicationInsightsDataClient(credentials=credential)
```

In `azure-monitor-query` v1.0.x:

```python
from azure.monitor.query import LogsQueryClient, MetricsQueryClient
from azure.identity import DefaultAzureCredential

credential = DefaultAzureCredential()
logs_query_client = LogsQueryClient(credential=credential)
metrics_query_client = MetricsQueryClient(credential=credential)
```

### Send a single query request

In version 1.0 of the Monitor Query library:

- The `QueryBody` is flattened. Users are expected to pass the Kusto query directly to the API.
- The `timespan` attribute is now required, which helped to avoid querying over the entire data set.

> In `azure-applicationinsights ` v0.1.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `azure-applicationinsights` v0.1.0:
```

```python
from azure.applicationinsights.models import QueryBody

query = 'requests | take 10'
application = 'DEMO_APP'
result = self.client.query.execute(application, QueryBody(query = query))
```

In `azure-monitor-query` v1.0.x:

```python
query = 'AppRequests | take 5'
logs_query_client.query(workspace_id, query, timespan=timedelta(days=1))
```

> ### A Note about the events API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A note about the Events API
```

> ***It is important to note that the Events API is just a different "API head" on the same data. It allows to query some logs in App Insights without writing Kusto queries. The API translates to Kusto queries in the background. The same data can be accessed via regular Kusto queries as shown in the above example.***

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `azure-applicationinsights` package includes an Events API. Note that the Events API is just a different "API head" on the same logs data. It enables the querying of some logs in Application Insights without writing Kusto queries. The API translates to Kusto queries in the background. The same data can be accessed via regular Kusto queries, as shown in the preceding example.
```

### Query metrics from a resource

> In `azure-applicationinsights ` v0.1.0:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In `azure-applicationinsights` v0.1.0:
```

# Guide for migrating from azure-applicationinsights v0.1.0 to azure-monitor-query v1.0.x

This guide assists you in the migration from [azure-applicationinsights](https://pypi.org/project/azure-applicationinsights/) v0.1.0 to [azure-monitor-query](https://pypi.org/project/azure-monitor-query/) v1.0.x. Side-by-side comparisons are provided for similar operations between the two packages.

Familiarity with the `azure-applicationinsights` v0.1.0 package is assumed. If you're new to the Azure Monitor Query client library for Python, see the [README for `azure-monitor-query`](https://docs.microsoft.com/python/api/overview/azure/monitor-query-readme?view=azure-python) instead of this guide.

## Table of contents

> - [Migration benefits](#migration-benefits)
>     - [Cross-service SDK improvements](#cross-service-sdk-improvements)
>     - [New features](#new-features)
> - [Important changes](#important-changes)
>     - [The client](#the-client)
>     - [Client constructors and authentication](#client-constructors-and-authentication)
>     - [Send a single query request](#sending-a-single-query-request)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Migration benefits](#migration-benefits)
  - [Cross-service SDK improvements](#cross-service-sdk-improvements)
  - [New features](#new-features)
- [Important changes](#important-changes)
  - [The client](#the-client)
  - [Client constructors and authentication](#client-constructors-and-authentication)
  - [Send a single query request](#sending-a-single-query-request)
```
